README.md, before:

# FTCBase

The Broncobots' Android Studio template for FTC, with [Pedro Pathing](https://pedropathing.com/) and [NextFTC](https://nextftc.dev/).

This repository contains the public [FTC SDK for the DECODE (2025-2026) competition season](https://github.com/FIRST-Tech-Challenge/FtcRobotController/tree/40bc118a401cc9a6814d0eda0121b9fbca052337).

## Installing
### Installing Android Studio
Follow the official *FTC* instructions here: [Installing Android Studio](https://ftc-docs.firstinspires.org/en/latest/programming_resources/tutorial_specific/android_studio/installing_android_studio/Installing-Android-Studio.html).

**Do not forget to install JDK 17 separately!**

### Downloading the Project
- Press the green **<> Code** button above.
- Select "Download ZIP"
- Unzip the folder and rename it to "FTC-<Team Number>-<Season Name>"
  - E.g. FTC-201-DECODE
- It is recommended to create a dedicated Robotics folder on your desktop to store this project.
  - **DO NOT** leave it in your Downloads folder.
- Import the project in Android Studio and wait for Gradle to sync.
  - Make sure your have installed JDK 17 (see above)!
  - When the file tree in Android Studio turns to "Android" mode, Gradle has succeeded.
  - You can start writing OpModes under "TeamCode/java/org.firstinspires.ftc.teamcode"

## Documentation
- [FIRST Tech Challenge Documentation](https://ftc-docs.firstinspires.org/index.html)
  - Programming, control systems, SDK, and game resources; up-to-date and officially maintained by *FIRST*.
- [FTC Javadoc Documentation](https://javadoc.io/doc/org.firstinspires.ftc)
  - Javadoc for the FTC SDK.
- [Pedro Pathing](https://pedropathing.com/)
  - Great autonomous path follower for holonomic robots.
- [NextFTC](https://nextftc.dev/)
  - Command-based library with a number of utilities to make coding for FTC easier.

### Sample OpModes
This project contains a large selection of Sample OpModes which can be cut and pasted into your /teamcode folder to be used as-is, or modified to suit your team's needs.
- Samples: &nbsp;&nbsp; [/FtcRobotController/src/main/java/org/firstinspires/ftc/robotcontroller/external/samples](FtcRobotController/src/main/java/org/firstinspires/ftc/robotcontroller/external/samples)
- Instructions: &nbsp;&nbsp; [/TeamCode/src/main/java/org/firstinspires/ftc/teamcode](TeamCode/src/main/java/org/firstinspires/ftc/teamcode)

### Online User Forum
For technical questions regarding the Control System or the FTC SDK, please visit the [FIRST Tech Challenge Community forum](https://ftc-community.firstinspires.org/).

Commit message:

Add more details about Android Studio setup in README

README.md, after:

# FTCBase

The Broncobots' Android Studio template for FTC, with [Pedro Pathing](https://pedropathing.com/) and [NextFTC](https://nextftc.dev/).

This repository contains the public [FTC SDK for the DECODE (2025-2026) competition season](https://github.com/FIRST-Tech-Challenge/FtcRobotController/tree/40bc118a401cc9a6814d0eda0121b9fbca052337).

## Installing
### Installing Android Studio
Make sure you have a version of [Android Studio that supports AGP 8.13](https://developer.android.com/studio/releases#android_gradle_plugin_and_android_studio_compatibility).

Follow the official *FTC* instructions here: [Installing Android Studio](https://ftc-docs.firstinspires.org/en/latest/programming_resources/tutorial_specific/android_studio/installing_android_studio/Installing-Android-Studio.html).

**There is a possibility that you need to install JDK 17 separately**. Here's how:
- Go to Android Studio Settings > Build, Execution, Deployment > Build Tools > Gradle
- In the Gradle JDK dropdown, select `jbr-17`.
  - If that option is not there, download it from the dropdown.
- Press Apply/OK and resync Gradle.

### Downloading the Project
- Press the green **<> Code** button above.
- Select "Download ZIP"
- Unzip the folder and rename it to "FTC-<Team Number>-<Season Name>"
  - E.g. FTC-201-DECODE
- It is recommended to create a dedicated Robotics folder on your desktop to store this project.
  - **DO NOT** leave it in your Downloads folder.
- Import the project in Android Studio and wait for Gradle to sync.
  - Make sure your have installed JDK 17 (see above)!
  - When the file tree in Android Studio turns to "Android" mode, Gradle has succeeded.
  - You can start writing OpModes under "TeamCode/java/org.firstinspires.ftc.teamcode"

## Documentation
- [FIRST Tech Challenge Documentation](https://ftc-docs.firstinspires.org/index.html)
  - Programming, control systems, SDK, and game resources; up-to-date and officially maintained by *FIRST*.
- [FTC Javadoc Documentation](https://javadoc.io/doc/org.firstinspires.ftc)
  - Javadoc for the FTC SDK.
- [Pedro Pathing](https://pedropathing.com/)
  - Great autonomous path follower for holonomic robots.
- [NextFTC](https://nextftc.dev/)
  - Command-based library with a number of utilities to make coding for FTC easier.

### Sample OpModes
This project contains a large selection of Sample OpModes which can be cut and pasted into your /teamcode folder to be used as-is, or modified to suit your team's needs.
- Samples: &nbsp;&nbsp; [/FtcRobotController/src/main/java/org/firstinspires/ftc/robotcontroller/external/samples](FtcRobotController/src/main/java/org/firstinspires/ftc/robotcontroller/external/samples)
- Instructions: &nbsp;&nbsp; [/TeamCode/src/main/java/org/firstinspires/ftc/teamcode](TeamCode/src/main/java/org/firstinspires/ftc/teamcode)

### Online User Forum
For technical questions regarding the Control System or the FTC SDK, please visit the [FIRST Tech Challenge Community forum](https://ftc-community.firstinspires.org/).
